index.rst, before:

.. Below is the table-of-content tree for the website,
	which is hidden from the page but appears in the sidebar.
	...
	The toctree is located at the top of this file, so that
	chapters are generated properly for the offline downloads.

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: About

	about/command-line
	about/getting-started

.. First section has articles on assets (in general).
	Second section lists asset types, alphabetically.
.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Asset Manual

	assets/asset-bundle-custom-data
	assets/asset-bundles
	assets/asset-definitions
	assets/data-file-format
	assets/asset-validation
	assets/curated-items

	assets/airdrop-asset
	assets/animal-asset
	assets/animation
	assets/character-mesh-replacement
	assets/crafting-blacklist-asset
	assets/currency-asset
	assets/effect-asset
	assets/foliage-asset
	assets/item-asset/index
	assets/layers
	assets/level-asset
	assets/material-palette-asset
	assets/mod-hooks
	assets/npc-asset/index
	assets/object-asset
	assets/outfit-asset
	assets/physics-material-asset
	assets/resource-asset
	assets/spawn-asset
	assets/stereo-song-asset
	assets/unity-2018
	assets/unity-2019
	assets/vehicle-asset
	assets/vehicle-physics-profile-asset
	assets/weather-asset
	assets/zombie-difficulty-asset

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Mapping

	mapping/charts
	mapping/curated-maps
	mapping/editor-asset-redirectors
	mapping/favorite-searches
	mapping/level-batching
	mapping/level-config
	mapping/manual-object-culling

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Servers & Programming

	servers/command-io
	servers/debugging-exceptions
	servers/dedicated-workshop-update-monitor
	servers/fake-ip
	servers/game-server-login-tokens
	servers/glazier
	servers/openmod
	servers/port-forwarding
	servers/rocket
	servers/server-codes
	servers/server-hosting
	servers/server-hosting-rules
	servers/server-update-notifications

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Data Types

	data/built-in-types
	
	data/asset-ptr
	data/bitmask
	data/color
	data/enum/index
	data/flag
	data/guid
	data/master-bundle-ptr
	data/rich-text
	data/struct/index
	data/vector3

Unturned Documentation
======================

This repository exists to document `Unturned <https://store.steampowered.com/app/304930>`_'s modding features going forward. Originally map and asset documentation was created through Steam Guides. The main guide with links to related guides can be found here: `Workshop: Creating, Publishing & Updating <https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=460136012>`_.

Upcoming Features
-----------------

You can find modding features under consideration on this Trello board: `Unturned Roadmap <https://trello.com/b/gpe4zlW3/unturned-roadmap>`_

The cards on the board aren't ordered in any particular way. i.e., they do not dictate the order of updates.

Miscellaneous requests and tasks that pop up take priority over the roadmap, so it may go a while between progress updates. For example, work for curated maps often takes priority.

Several high-priority ideas that don't yet have a solid plan, like car physics improvements or a crafting revamp, aren't listed on the board.

Video Tutorials
---------------

`How to host a Dedicated Server on Windows <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8axVrnSLlx4>`_

Several older tutorial videos are gradually becoming outdated and don't represent the current development direction, but are listed here for completeness:

- `Uploading Skins to the Curated Workshop <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rF4YvEuxse8>`_

- `Creating Custom Songs <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXpk7o9Dr4k>`_

- `Quick Overview of First Version of Foliage Upgrade <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVt2bRcAWv4>`_

- `Devkit 101 + Landscapes Overview <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fkljCH419ug>`_

- `Spawn Tables <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Aiz7utMx8g>`_

- `Building Models <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAZ9KEGjSUk>`_

Offline Downloads
-----------------

PDF and Epub versions of the documentation can be `downloaded <https://readthedocs.org/projects/unturned/downloads/>`_ for offline use.

Contributing
------------

Anyone can contribute towards the *Unturned* modding documentation! To submit an issue, visit the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/SmartlyDressedGames/Unturned-Docs>`_. See the `README <https://github.com/SmartlyDressedGames/Unturned-Docs#readme>`_ for more details on how to contribute.

Commit message:

Update current introductory articles (#329)
* Update introductory articles

Rename to "Launch Options". Update "Getting Started" info.

* Tweaked per suggestions

index.rst, after:

.. Below is the table-of-content tree for the website,
	which is hidden from the page but appears in the sidebar.
	...
	The toctree is located at the top of this file, so that
	chapters are generated properly for the offline downloads.

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: About

	about/getting-started
	about/launch-options

.. First section has articles on assets (in general).
	Second section lists asset types, alphabetically.
.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Asset Manual

	assets/asset-bundle-custom-data
	assets/asset-bundles
	assets/asset-definitions
	assets/data-file-format
	assets/asset-validation
	assets/curated-items

	assets/airdrop-asset
	assets/animal-asset
	assets/animation
	assets/character-mesh-replacement
	assets/crafting-blacklist-asset
	assets/currency-asset
	assets/effect-asset
	assets/foliage-asset
	assets/item-asset/index
	assets/layers
	assets/level-asset
	assets/material-palette-asset
	assets/mod-hooks
	assets/npc-asset/index
	assets/object-asset
	assets/outfit-asset
	assets/physics-material-asset
	assets/resource-asset
	assets/spawn-asset
	assets/stereo-song-asset
	assets/unity-2018
	assets/unity-2019
	assets/vehicle-asset
	assets/vehicle-physics-profile-asset
	assets/weather-asset
	assets/zombie-difficulty-asset

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Mapping

	mapping/charts
	mapping/curated-maps
	mapping/editor-asset-redirectors
	mapping/favorite-searches
	mapping/level-batching
	mapping/level-config
	mapping/manual-object-culling

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Servers & Programming

	servers/command-io
	servers/debugging-exceptions
	servers/dedicated-workshop-update-monitor
	servers/fake-ip
	servers/game-server-login-tokens
	servers/glazier
	servers/openmod
	servers/port-forwarding
	servers/rocket
	servers/server-codes
	servers/server-hosting
	servers/server-hosting-rules
	servers/server-update-notifications

.. toctree::
	:hidden:
	:maxdepth: 1
	:caption: Data Types

	data/built-in-types
	
	data/asset-ptr
	data/bitmask
	data/color
	data/enum/index
	data/flag
	data/guid
	data/master-bundle-ptr
	data/rich-text
	data/struct/index
	data/vector3

Unturned Documentation
======================

Welcome to the official documentation for `Unturned <https://store.steampowered.com/app/304930>`_'s modding and server hosting features! To navigate, use the table of contents in the sidebar or the search function in the top-left corner.

A lot of our older documentation was scattered between YouTube videos and Steam Guides. The main Steam Guide with links to related guides can be found here: `Workshop: Creating, Publishing & Updating <https://steamcommunity.com/sharedfiles/filedetails/?id=460136012>`_. Note that most of these older guides are outdated.

Upcoming Features
-----------------

You can find modding features under consideration on this Trello board: `Unturned Roadmap <https://trello.com/b/gpe4zlW3/unturned-roadmap>`_. The cards on the board aren't ordered in any particular way. i.e., they do not dictate the order of updates.

Miscellaneous requests and tasks that may pop up take priority over the roadmap, so it may go a while between progress updates. For example, work for curated maps often takes priority. Several high-priority ideas that don't yet have a solid plan, like a crafting revamp, aren't listed on the board.

Video Tutorials
---------------

`How to host a Dedicated Server on Windows <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8axVrnSLlx4>`_

Several older tutorial videos are gradually becoming outdated and don't represent the current development direction, but are listed here for completeness:

- `Uploading Skins to the Curated Workshop <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rF4YvEuxse8>`_

- `Creating Custom Songs <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wXpk7o9Dr4k>`_

- `Quick Overview of First Version of Foliage Upgrade <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVt2bRcAWv4>`_

- `Devkit 101 + Landscapes Overview <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fkljCH419ug>`_

- `Spawn Tables <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7Aiz7utMx8g>`_

- `Building Models <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rAZ9KEGjSUk>`_

Offline Downloads
-----------------

PDF and Epub versions of the documentation can be `downloaded <https://readthedocs.org/projects/unturned/downloads/>`_ for offline use.

Contributing
------------

Anyone can contribute towards the *Unturned* modding documentation! To submit an issue, visit the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/SmartlyDressedGames/Unturned-Docs>`_. See the `README <https://github.com/SmartlyDressedGames/Unturned-Docs#readme>`_ for more details on how to contribute.
