RocketMod.md, before:

RocketMod
=========

__Rocket__ is a popular server-side plugin framework which expands the administrative toolset and wraps the Unturned APIs in a user-friendly manner.

Status
------

On the 20th of December 2019 Sven Mawby "fr34kyn01535" and Enes Sadık Özbek "Trojaner" officially ceased maintenance of RocketMod. They have kindly released the source code under the MIT license. [Read their full farewell statement here.](https://github.com/RocketMod/Rocket/blob/master/Farewell.md)

Unturned protects core Rocket compatibility between versions, so it will continue to function with all future releases of the game. Plugins may require updates, however.

Installation
------------

Unturned includes an optional pre-built fork of the final version of RocketMod. It exists to fix issues that cropped up in the final release and preserve compatibility.

1. Copy the Rocket.Unturned module from the game's Extras directory.
2. Paste it into the game's Modules directory.

Resources
---------

fr34kyn01535 has listed all of the original plugins from the final versions in a post: [List of plugins from the old repository](https://www.reddit.com/r/rocketmod/comments/ek4i7b/)

Following closure of the original forum the recommended site for discussions is the RocketMod subreddit: [/r/RocketMod](https://www.reddit.com/r/rocketmod/)

The RocketMod organization on GitHub hosts several related archived projects: [RocketMod (Abandoned)](https://github.com/RocketMod)

Commit message:

Link to the officially maintained RocketMod repo

RocketMod.md, after:

RocketMod
=========

__Rocket__ is a popular server-side plugin framework which expands the administrative toolset and wraps the Unturned APIs in a user-friendly manner. [Browse the open-source repository here.](https://github.com/SmartlyDressedGames/RocketMod)

Installation
------------

The dedicated server includes an officially maintained build of RocketMod. It exists to fix important issues that cropped up in the final release and preserve compatibility.

1. Copy the Rocket.Unturned module from the game's Extras directory.
2. Paste it into the game's Modules directory.

Status
------

On the 20th of December 2019 Sven Mawby "fr34kyn01535" and Enes Sadık Özbek "Trojaner" officially ceased maintenance of RocketMod. They have kindly released the source code under the MIT license. [Read their full farewell statement here.](https://github.com/RocketMod/Rocket/blob/master/Farewell.md)

Unturned protects core Rocket compatibility between versions, so it will continue to function with all future releases of the game. Plugins may require updates, however.

Resources
---------

fr34kyn01535 has listed all of the original plugins from the final versions in a post: [List of plugins from the old repository](https://www.reddit.com/r/rocketmod/comments/ek4i7b/)

Following closure of the original forum the recommended site for discussions is the RocketMod subreddit: [/r/RocketMod](https://www.reddit.com/r/rocketmod/)

An officially maintained version is available on GitHub here: [Official Repo](https://github.com/SmartlyDressedGames/RocketMod)

The RocketMod organization on GitHub hosts several related archived projects: [RocketMod (Abandoned)](https://github.com/RocketMod)
