ServerHostingRules.md, before:

# Server Hosting Rules

Servers that violate these rules may be temporarily or permanently banned.

[View Moderation List](https://smartlydressedgames.com/UnturnedHostBans/index.html)

## Monetization Types

Warnings for breaking the monetization rules first began being sent out on May 28, 2021. The monetization rules have now been in full effect since June 11, 2021.

Hosts are allowed to sell permanent benefits and monthly subscriptions. Consumable microtransactions are **not** allowed.

Examples of allowed monetization:
- Accepting donations.
- Selling permanent or monthly subscription access to play on the server(s).
- Selling ranks, kits, unlocks, benefits, etc. available permanently or for the duration of the monthly subscription. Timers or cooldowns are fine.
- Selling cosmetics like custom skins, name tags, chat colors, etc. available permanently or for the duration of the monthly subscription.
- Selling services or commissions, for example a modder taking commissions for new content that gets added to the server for all players.

Examples of banned monetization:
- Selling in-game items like weapons, ammunition, supplies, bases, etc.
- Selling in-game vehicles.
- Selling experience points.
- Selling currency.
- Selling ranks, kits, unlocks, benefits, etc. which stack with themselves as a loophole.

## Monetization Filter

The "Monetization" field in each server's Config.json file defaults to "Unspecified", but can be set to "None" or "NonGameplay". If configuring this field please ensure to be truthful. "None" is for unmonetized or donation-only servers, and "NonGameplay" is for servers with purchases that do not provide a gameplay advantage. Players filtering the server list by "NonGameplay" will also see "None" servers.

## Online Conduct

View the Steam rules and guidelines here: https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=4045-USHJ-3810

Repeated offenders of Steam rules and guidelines will be banned.

## Workshop File Copyright Infringement

Mod authors can submit a notice of copyright infringement here: https://steamcommunity.com/dmca/create/

If you have submitted a notice of copyright infringement against a server host, please notify Smartly Dressed Games by email as well. We will keep a record of the server's workshop file usage. If there is a pattern of copyright infringement we will ban the server.

Commit message:

Add rule against fictitious and deceptive pricing

ServerHostingRules.md, after:

# Server Hosting Rules

Servers that violate these rules may be temporarily or permanently banned.

[View Moderation List](https://smartlydressedgames.com/UnturnedHostBans/index.html)

## Monetization Types

Update 2nd of August 2021: fictitious and deceptive pricing is not allowed. For example, lying that a discount is nearly expired, or pretending the price is discounted when it has never been at full price. We would strongly advise following [Steam's discounting rules](https://partner.steamgames.com/doc/marketing/discounts) to help avoid breaking any real-world laws.

Warnings for breaking the monetization rules first began being sent out on May 28, 2021. The monetization rules have now been in full effect since June 11, 2021.

Hosts are allowed to sell permanent benefits and monthly subscriptions. Consumable microtransactions are **not** allowed.

Examples of allowed monetization:
- Accepting donations.
- Selling permanent or monthly subscription access to play on the server(s).
- Selling ranks, kits, unlocks, benefits, etc. available permanently or for the duration of the monthly subscription. Timers or cooldowns are fine.
- Selling cosmetics like custom skins, name tags, chat colors, etc. available permanently or for the duration of the monthly subscription.
- Selling services or commissions, for example a modder taking commissions for new content that gets added to the server for all players.

Examples of banned monetization:
- Selling in-game items like weapons, ammunition, supplies, bases, etc.
- Selling in-game vehicles.
- Selling experience points.
- Selling currency.
- Selling ranks, kits, unlocks, benefits, etc. which stack with themselves as a loophole.

## Monetization Filter

The "Monetization" field in each server's Config.json file defaults to "Unspecified", but can be set to "None" or "NonGameplay". If configuring this field please ensure to be truthful. "None" is for unmonetized or donation-only servers, and "NonGameplay" is for servers with purchases that do not provide a gameplay advantage. Players filtering the server list by "NonGameplay" will also see "None" servers.

## Online Conduct

View the Steam rules and guidelines here: https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=4045-USHJ-3810

Repeated offenders of Steam rules and guidelines will be banned.

## Workshop File Copyright Infringement

Mod authors can submit a notice of copyright infringement here: https://steamcommunity.com/dmca/create/

If you have submitted a notice of copyright infringement against a server host, please notify Smartly Dressed Games by email as well. We will keep a record of the server's workshop file usage. If there is a pattern of copyright infringement we will ban the server.
