servers/port-forwarding.rst, before:

.. _doc_servers_port_forward:

Port Forwarding
===============

.. note:: After the 3.23.14.0 update, port forwarding is no longer necessary to make a server accessible over the Internet. It's only required if you want players to be able to join directly by IP and/or domain name.

When hosting a server on a home network **port forwarding** is required in order to direct traffic to the host computer. One way to think of it is that when there are multiple devices (e.g. computers and phones) connected to the LAN, the outside Internet does not know which device is the Unturned server. In this case port forwarding specifies which LAN device is the host.

Two pieces of information: the port range and local device address are required prior to port forwarding, and are described in detail below.

Port Range
----------

Each Unturned server uses two consecutive ports while running. The first is for server list queries, and the second for in-game traffic.

By default 27015 and 27016 are used. Setting a different value with the ``Port`` command uses that value and plus one. Recommended ``Port`` command settings are 27015 for the first server, 27017 for the second server, 27019 for the third server, so on and so forth.

Local Device Address
--------------------

Forwarding the ports directs them to a LAN address, i.e. the computer hosting the server. To determine the local IP on Windows:

1. Press Windows + R to open the Run dialog.

2. Type ``cmd`` and press enter.
3. Type ``ipconfig`` in the command prompt and press enter.
4. Find the ``Wireless LAN adapter Wi-Fi`` or ``Ethernet adapter Ethernet`` header.
5. Look for the ``IPv4 Address`` value and make note of it. This is the local address to forward the ports to. It likely looks something like ``192.168.0.6``.

How to Forward Ports
--------------------

Instructions vary by router, but should be doable from the web browser without any extra tools or software. This third-party website has a thorough list of routers with simple steps for each model: https://portforward.com/router.htm

In general the steps are along the lines of:

1. Connect to router via web browser.

2. Login with home admin credentials.

3. Find Port Forwarding menu.

4. Find the option to add a new rule.

5. Name the new rule something related to Unturned for reference.

6. Input 27015 as the starting port(s) and 27016 as the ending port(s).

.. note::
	
	On some routers it might not be possible to input multiple ports within a single rule. In that case multiple rules can be setup; one for each of the two ports.

7. Enable UDP protocol.

8. Set destination internal IP to the local host address.

9. Save the new rule.

Commit message:

Docs for Server Codes and Fake IP

servers/port-forwarding.rst, after:

.. _doc_servers_port_forward:

Port Forwarding
===============

.. note:: After the 3.23.14.0 update, port forwarding is no longer necessary to make a server accessible over the Internet. It's only required if you want players to be able to join directly by IP and/or domain name. For more information on the new alternatives to port forwarding, please refer to :ref:`Server Codes <doc_servers_server_codes>` and :ref:`Fake IP <doc_servers_fake_ip>`.

When hosting a server on a home network **port forwarding** is required in order to direct traffic to the host computer. One way to think of it is that when there are multiple devices (e.g. computers and phones) connected to the LAN, the outside Internet does not know which device is the Unturned server. In this case port forwarding specifies which LAN device is the host.

Two pieces of information: the port range and local device address are required prior to port forwarding, and are described in detail below.

Port Range
----------

Each Unturned server uses two consecutive ports while running. The first is for server list queries, and the second for in-game traffic.

By default 27015 and 27016 are used. Setting a different value with the ``Port`` command uses that value and plus one. Recommended ``Port`` command settings are 27015 for the first server, 27017 for the second server, 27019 for the third server, so on and so forth.

Local Device Address
--------------------

Forwarding the ports directs them to a LAN address, i.e. the computer hosting the server. To determine the local IP on Windows:

1. Press Windows + R to open the Run dialog.

2. Type ``cmd`` and press enter.
3. Type ``ipconfig`` in the command prompt and press enter.
4. Find the ``Wireless LAN adapter Wi-Fi`` or ``Ethernet adapter Ethernet`` header.
5. Look for the ``IPv4 Address`` value and make note of it. This is the local address to forward the ports to. It likely looks something like ``192.168.0.6``.

How to Forward Ports
--------------------

Instructions vary by router, but should be doable from the web browser without any extra tools or software. This third-party website has a thorough list of routers with simple steps for each model: https://portforward.com/router.htm

In general the steps are along the lines of:

1. Connect to router via web browser.

2. Login with home admin credentials.

3. Find Port Forwarding menu.

4. Find the option to add a new rule.

5. Name the new rule something related to Unturned for reference.

6. Input 27015 as the starting port(s) and 27016 as the ending port(s).

.. note::
	
	On some routers it might not be possible to input multiple ports within a single rule. In that case multiple rules can be setup; one for each of the two ports.

7. Enable UDP protocol.

8. Set destination internal IP to the local host address.

9. Save the new rule.
