assets/crafting-blacklist-asset.rst, before:

.. _doc_assets_crafting_blacklist:

Crafting Blacklist Assets
=========================

Prevents specific items or blueprints from being used while crafting. They are hidden from the item quick actions menu and recipe list.

**Type** *string*: ``SDG.Unturned.CraftingBlacklistAsset``

**Input_Items** array of Item :ref:`Asset Pointers <doc_data_assetptr>`: Any blueprints consuming these items are cannot be crafted.

.. code-block:: cs
	
	"Input_Items"
	[
		"### this is a GUID number ###"
		"### guid ###"
		{
			"NoteToSelf" "eaglefire"
			"GUID" "b03d581a5c1a490f995f8deba57b0f17"
		}
		"### another GUID number ###"
	]

**Output_Items** array of Item :ref:`Asset Pointers <doc_data_assetptr>`: Any blueprints generating these items cannot be crafted.

**Blueprints** array: Prevent specific individual blueprints from being crafted. Each entry has an ``Item`` :ref:`Asset Pointer <doc_data_assetptr>` and ``Blueprint`` index. For example to prevent the Chef Hat from being salvaged:

.. code-block:: cs
	
	"Blueprints"
	[
		{
			"Item" "a6099002318e4d58b8e59d431bcf1b8a"
			"Blueprint" "0"
		}
	]

Commit message:

Allow_Core_Blueprints and remove no-longer-necessary quotes

assets/crafting-blacklist-asset.rst, after:

.. _doc_assets_crafting_blacklist:

Crafting Blacklist Assets
=========================

Prevents specific items or blueprints from being used while crafting. They are hidden from the item quick actions menu and recipe list.

**Type** *string*: ``SDG.Unturned.CraftingBlacklistAsset``

**Input_Items** array of Item :ref:`Asset Pointers <doc_data_assetptr>`: Any blueprints consuming these items are cannot be crafted.

.. code-block:: text

	Input_Items
	[
		### this is a GUID number ###
		### guid ###
		{
			// eaglefire
			GUID b03d581a5c1a490f995f8deba57b0f17
		}
		### another GUID number ###
	]

**Output_Items** array of Item :ref:`Asset Pointers <doc_data_assetptr>`: Any blueprints generating these items cannot be crafted.

**Blueprints** array: Prevent specific individual blueprints from being crafted. Each entry has an ``Item`` :ref:`Asset Pointer <doc_data_assetptr>` and ``Blueprint`` index. For example to prevent the Chef Hat from being salvaged:

.. code-block:: text

	Blueprints
	[
		{
			Item a6099002318e4d58b8e59d431bcf1b8a
			Blueprint 0
		}
	]

**Allow_Core_Blueprints** *bool*: Defaults to true. If false, blueprints from the vanilla/built-in items are not allowed.
