docs/source/assets/ItemData.rst, before:

Item Data (outdated)
====================

.. warning::
  
  This documentation file has been deprecated, and is no longer receiving updates. It has been superceded in favor of the `ItemAsset directory <ItemAsset>`_, which contains individual documentation files for each item asset class.
  
  This deprecated documentation file will be progressively phased out as the new documentation sources are expanded.

----

**Items** in *Unturned* encompass anything that can be carried in a player's in-game inventory. All items share some properties, while each item type has its own unique data. Quick links are available below.

Non-specific Data
=================

* Refer to `README.rst <ItemAsset/README.rst>`_.

**Durability**: Either a decimal probability chance of quality loss upon action, or guaranteed loss and durability value is instead representative of the amount lost.

* *Canteens*: Guaranteed quality loss occurs upon drinking. Durability value represents the amount of quality loss.
* *Melee Weapons*: Decimal probability chance of quality loss occurs upon hitting.
* *Ranged Weapons*: Decimal probability chance of quality loss occurs upon shooting.

**Wear**: Increment to degrade quality by. Only applicable to items where durability represents a decimal probability chance of quality loss.

**Structure_Damage**: Damage dealt to structures. Multiplied by 3 in single-player.

**Invulnerable**: Specified if damage ignores structures, barricades, and vehicles that are considered invulnerable to low-power weaponry. Not applicable to explosive damage, which always ignores invulnerability.

**Range**: For ranged and melee weapons – max distance in meters before damage is no longer possible. For explosive weapons (including magazine attachments that generate explosive projectiles) – the radius of the explosion in meters.

Asset Bundles and Error Handling
--------------------------------

See `AssetBundles.rst <AssetBundles.rst>`_ for full documentation regarding asset bundles.

Barricades
==========

**Type**: ``Barricade``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Barrel_Rain``, ``Barricade``, ``Bed``, ``Cage``, ``Campfire``, ``Claim``, ``Clock``, ``Door``, ``Fortification``, ``Freeform``, ``Gate``, ``Glass``, ``Hatch``, ``Ladder``, ``Mannequin``, ``Note``, ``Oven``, ``Oxygenator``, ``Safezone``, ``Shutter``, ``Sign``, ``Sign_Wall``, ``Spot``, ``Stereo``, ``Torch``, ``Vehicle``

**Health**: Amount of health.

**Range**: Distance away the barricade can be placed from the player.

**Radius**:

**Offset**: Inherent distance above the point to place.

**Locked**: Usability/interactivity access restricted to owner.

**Explosion**: Destruction effect ID.

**Salvage_Duration_Multiplier**: Multiplier on salvage duration.

**Unpickupable**: Cannot be salvaged.

**Unrepairable**: Cannot be repaired.

**Unsalvageable**: If damaged, salvaging yields no partial ingredients.

**Unsaveable**: Cannot be saved by the game.

**Vulnerable**: Specified if the barricade can be destroyed by low-power weaponry.

**Proof_Explosion**: Specified in immune to explosion damage.

**Armor_Tier**: ``High``. Doubles health value.

**Use_Water_Height_Transparent_Sort**:

**Should_Close_When_Outside_Range**: ``true``. Defaults to false. Only applicable to interactive barricades that generate a UI element, such as item storages and signs.

**Allow_Collision_While_Animating**: Allows animated interactables (e.g., doors) to perform collision movement upon players.

**Allow_Placement_On_Vehicle**: ``false``, ``true``. Defaults to false for beds and robotic turrets.

Beacons
-------

**Type**: ``Beacon``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Beacon``

**Wave**: Number of zombies that must be killed.

**Rewards**: Number of rewards spawned.

**Reward_ID**: Spawn table ID for rewards.

Experience Storages
-------------------

**Type**: ``Library``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Library``

**Capacity**: Numerical maximum capacity of experience able to be stored.

**Tax**: Percent tax on deposits.

Generators
----------

**Type**: ``Generator``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Generator``

**Capacity**: Numerical maximum capacity of fuel units able to be stored.

**Wirerange**: Radius range in meters (representative of a sphere) for how large of an area is considered powered.

**Burn**: Number of seconds before one fuel unit is burned.

Item Storages
-------------

**Type**: ``Storage``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Storage``, ``Storage_Wall``

**Storage_X**: Horizontal storage space.

**Storage_Y**: Vertical storage space.

**Display**: Stored item is visible.

Liquid Storages
---------------

**Type**: ``Tank``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Tank``

**Source**: ``Fuel``, ``Water``

**Resource**: Numerical maximum capacity of liquid units that can be stored. Water units are measured in potential drinking uses.

Oil Pumps
---------

**Type**: ``Oil_Pump``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Oil``

**Fuel_Capacity**: Numerical maximum capacity of fuel units able to be stored. 

Plants
------

**Type**: ``Farm``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Farm``

**Growth**: Number of seconds required to fully grow.

**Grow**: ID of the item generated when harvesting a fully grown plant.

Remote Explosives
-----------------

**Type**: ``Charge``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Charge``

**Range2**: Meter radius of range for explosive damage.

**Explosion2**: Explosion effect ID for the damaging explosion.

Limb-independent entity damage is also applicable.

Robotic Turrets
---------------

**Type**: ``Sentry``, ``Sentry_Freeform``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Sentry``

**Storage_X**: Horizontal storage space.

**Storage_Y**: Vertical storage space.

**Display**: Stored item is visible.

**Mode**: ``Friendly``, ``Hostile``, ``Neutral``

**Infinite_Ammo**: ammunition never depletes.

**Infinite_Quality**: Weapon quality never depletes.

Traps
-----

**Type**: ``Trap``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Spike``, ``Wire``

**Damage_Tires**: Specified if tires can be popped when ran over by a vehicle.

**Range2**: Meter radius of range for explosive damage.

**Explosion2**: Explosion effect ID for the damaging explosion.

Limb-independent entity damage (e.g., Player_Damage) is also applicable.

Fishing Poles
=============

**Type**: ``Fisher``

**Useable**: ``Fisher``

**Reward_ID**: ID of the spawn table to pull catchable items from.

Fuel Canisters
==============

**Type**: ``Fuel``

**Useable**: ``Fuel``

**Fuel**: Amount of fuel units added to target.

Growth Supplements
==================

**Type**: ``Grower``

**Useable**: ``Grower``

Melee Weapons
=============

No documentation is available at this time.

Structures
==========

**Type**: ``Structure``

**Useable**: ``Structure``

**Construct**: ``Floor``, ``Floor_Poly``, ``Pillar``, ``Post``, ``Rampart``, ``Roof``, ``Roof_Poly``, ``Wall``

**Health**: Amount of health.

**Range**: Distance away the barricade can be placed from the player.

**Explosion**: Destruction effect ID.

**Foliage_Cut_Radius**: Numerical value in meters for the radius in which foliage is removed from around the structure. Only applicable to floor structure types.

Tools
=====

Car Jacks
---------

Car jacks launch vehicles into the air as a method of reorienting them if they were flipped over.

**Type**: ``Tool``

**Useable**: ``Carjack``

Car Lock Picks
--------------

Car lock picks allow players to unlock any locked vehicle, but are single-use.

**Type**: ``Tool``

**Useable**: ``Carlockpick``

Tire Replacements
-----------------

Tire replacements allow for adding or removing tires from four-wheeled vehicles.

**Type**: ``Tire``

**Useable**: ``Tire``

**Mode**: ``Add``, ``Remove``

Vehicle Batteries
-----------------

Vehicle batteries can be placed into vehicles, allowing them to perform activities that consume electrical energy rather than fuel. They are affected by quality.

**Type**: ``Vehicle_Repair_Tool``

**Useable**: ``Battery_Vehicle``

Walkie-talkies
--------------

When initiating voice chat with a walkie-talkie held, voice is transmitted through a two-way radio. An audible cue plays when initiating voice chat.

**Type**: ``Tool``

**Useable**: ``Walkie_Talkie``

Water Canisters
===============

**Type**: ``Refill``

**Useable**: ``Refill``

**Water**: The number of water to restore.

Commit message:

Add anchors & links
Updates many articles with custom anchors, and fixes/updates various links to use them.

Removes hyperlinks from inline code (e.g., in the EItemType enum), because nested inline coding doesn't play well with RST/Sphinx.

Configured TOC to collapse navigation.

docs/source/assets/ItemData.rst, after:

.. _doc_assets_itemdata:

Item Data (outdated)
====================

.. warning::
  
  This documentation file has been deprecated, and is no longer receiving updates. It has been superceded in favor of the `ItemAsset directory <ItemAsset>`_, which contains individual documentation files for each item asset class.
  
  This deprecated documentation file will be progressively phased out as the new documentation sources are expanded.

----

**Items** in *Unturned* encompass anything that can be carried in a player's in-game inventory. All items share some properties, while each item type has its own unique data.

Non-specific Data
=================

* Refer to :ref:`doc_itemasset_intro` instead.

**Durability**: Either a decimal probability chance of quality loss upon action, or guaranteed loss and durability value is instead representative of the amount lost.

* *Canteens*: Guaranteed quality loss occurs upon drinking. Durability value represents the amount of quality loss.
* *Melee Weapons*: Decimal probability chance of quality loss occurs upon hitting.
* *Ranged Weapons*: Decimal probability chance of quality loss occurs upon shooting.

**Wear**: Increment to degrade quality by. Only applicable to items where durability represents a decimal probability chance of quality loss.

**Structure_Damage**: Damage dealt to structures. Multiplied by 3 in single-player.

**Invulnerable**: Specified if damage ignores structures, barricades, and vehicles that are considered invulnerable to low-power weaponry. Not applicable to explosive damage, which always ignores invulnerability.

**Range**: For ranged and melee weapons – max distance in meters before damage is no longer possible. For explosive weapons (including magazine attachments that generate explosive projectiles) – the radius of the explosion in meters.

Asset Bundles and Error Handling
--------------------------------

See :ref:`AssetBundles.rst <doc_asset_bundles>` for full documentation regarding asset bundles.

Barricades
==========

**Type**: ``Barricade``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Barrel_Rain``, ``Barricade``, ``Bed``, ``Cage``, ``Campfire``, ``Claim``, ``Clock``, ``Door``, ``Fortification``, ``Freeform``, ``Gate``, ``Glass``, ``Hatch``, ``Ladder``, ``Mannequin``, ``Note``, ``Oven``, ``Oxygenator``, ``Safezone``, ``Shutter``, ``Sign``, ``Sign_Wall``, ``Spot``, ``Stereo``, ``Torch``, ``Vehicle``

**Health**: Amount of health.

**Range**: Distance away the barricade can be placed from the player.

**Radius**:

**Offset**: Inherent distance above the point to place.

**Locked**: Usability/interactivity access restricted to owner.

**Explosion**: Destruction effect ID.

**Salvage_Duration_Multiplier**: Multiplier on salvage duration.

**Unpickupable**: Cannot be salvaged.

**Unrepairable**: Cannot be repaired.

**Unsalvageable**: If damaged, salvaging yields no partial ingredients.

**Unsaveable**: Cannot be saved by the game.

**Vulnerable**: Specified if the barricade can be destroyed by low-power weaponry.

**Proof_Explosion**: Specified in immune to explosion damage.

**Armor_Tier**: ``High``. Doubles health value.

**Use_Water_Height_Transparent_Sort**:

**Should_Close_When_Outside_Range**: ``true``. Defaults to false. Only applicable to interactive barricades that generate a UI element, such as item storages and signs.

**Allow_Collision_While_Animating**: Allows animated interactables (e.g., doors) to perform collision movement upon players.

**Allow_Placement_On_Vehicle**: ``false``, ``true``. Defaults to false for beds and robotic turrets.

Beacons
-------

**Type**: ``Beacon``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Beacon``

**Wave**: Number of zombies that must be killed.

**Rewards**: Number of rewards spawned.

**Reward_ID**: Spawn table ID for rewards.

Experience Storages
-------------------

**Type**: ``Library``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Library``

**Capacity**: Numerical maximum capacity of experience able to be stored.

**Tax**: Percent tax on deposits.

Generators
----------

**Type**: ``Generator``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Generator``

**Capacity**: Numerical maximum capacity of fuel units able to be stored.

**Wirerange**: Radius range in meters (representative of a sphere) for how large of an area is considered powered.

**Burn**: Number of seconds before one fuel unit is burned.

Item Storages
-------------

**Type**: ``Storage``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Storage``, ``Storage_Wall``

**Storage_X**: Horizontal storage space.

**Storage_Y**: Vertical storage space.

**Display**: Stored item is visible.

Liquid Storages
---------------

**Type**: ``Tank``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Tank``

**Source**: ``Fuel``, ``Water``

**Resource**: Numerical maximum capacity of liquid units that can be stored. Water units are measured in potential drinking uses.

Oil Pumps
---------

**Type**: ``Oil_Pump``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Oil``

**Fuel_Capacity**: Numerical maximum capacity of fuel units able to be stored. 

Plants
------

**Type**: ``Farm``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Farm``

**Growth**: Number of seconds required to fully grow.

**Grow**: ID of the item generated when harvesting a fully grown plant.

Remote Explosives
-----------------

**Type**: ``Charge``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Charge``

**Range2**: Meter radius of range for explosive damage.

**Explosion2**: Explosion effect ID for the damaging explosion.

Limb-independent entity damage is also applicable.

Robotic Turrets
---------------

**Type**: ``Sentry``, ``Sentry_Freeform``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Sentry``

**Storage_X**: Horizontal storage space.

**Storage_Y**: Vertical storage space.

**Display**: Stored item is visible.

**Mode**: ``Friendly``, ``Hostile``, ``Neutral``

**Infinite_Ammo**: ammunition never depletes.

**Infinite_Quality**: Weapon quality never depletes.

Traps
-----

**Type**: ``Trap``

**Useable**: ``Barricade``

**Build**: ``Spike``, ``Wire``

**Damage_Tires**: Specified if tires can be popped when ran over by a vehicle.

**Range2**: Meter radius of range for explosive damage.

**Explosion2**: Explosion effect ID for the damaging explosion.

Limb-independent entity damage (e.g., Player_Damage) is also applicable.

Fishing Poles
=============

**Type**: ``Fisher``

**Useable**: ``Fisher``

**Reward_ID**: ID of the spawn table to pull catchable items from.

Fuel Canisters
==============

**Type**: ``Fuel``

**Useable**: ``Fuel``

**Fuel**: Amount of fuel units added to target.

Growth Supplements
==================

**Type**: ``Grower``

**Useable**: ``Grower``

Melee Weapons
=============

No documentation is available at this time.

Structures
==========

**Type**: ``Structure``

**Useable**: ``Structure``

**Construct**: ``Floor``, ``Floor_Poly``, ``Pillar``, ``Post``, ``Rampart``, ``Roof``, ``Roof_Poly``, ``Wall``

**Health**: Amount of health.

**Range**: Distance away the barricade can be placed from the player.

**Explosion**: Destruction effect ID.

**Foliage_Cut_Radius**: Numerical value in meters for the radius in which foliage is removed from around the structure. Only applicable to floor structure types.

Tools
=====

Car Jacks
---------

Car jacks launch vehicles into the air as a method of reorienting them if they were flipped over.

**Type**: ``Tool``

**Useable**: ``Carjack``

Car Lock Picks
--------------

Car lock picks allow players to unlock any locked vehicle, but are single-use.

**Type**: ``Tool``

**Useable**: ``Carlockpick``

Tire Replacements
-----------------

Tire replacements allow for adding or removing tires from four-wheeled vehicles.

**Type**: ``Tire``

**Useable**: ``Tire``

**Mode**: ``Add``, ``Remove``

Vehicle Batteries
-----------------

Vehicle batteries can be placed into vehicles, allowing them to perform activities that consume electrical energy rather than fuel. They are affected by quality.

**Type**: ``Vehicle_Repair_Tool``

**Useable**: ``Battery_Vehicle``

Walkie-talkies
--------------

When initiating voice chat with a walkie-talkie held, voice is transmitted through a two-way radio. An audible cue plays when initiating voice chat.

**Type**: ``Tool``

**Useable**: ``Walkie_Talkie``

Water Canisters
===============

**Type**: ``Refill``

**Useable**: ``Refill``

**Water**: The number of water to restore.
